---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Ready to Get Serious about JS and Web Development?

This course will introduce to modern, realistic web development. We'll be using tools 🧰 that are commonly used across and throughout professional web development. These include:

- Terminal/Command Line - a text-based interface to your computer that allows you to run commands. It's a bit like a super-powered version of the Windows Command Prompt or Mac Terminal.
- VS Code - a highly customizable code editor from Microsoft. Note that this is different from Visual Studio, which is used for C# development.
- Git - a version control system that allows you to track changes in your codebase over time. It's a bit like a time machine for your code, and is used by most professional developers, both solo and in teams. ⚠️ This will be challenging, especially at first. Be prepared for some confusion and frustration. It's normal, and we'll get through it together, as long as you are putting in the effort. :)
- GitHub - a platform that allows you to store your code in the cloud. We'll even connect it to services like Netlify to deploy our projects live on the web with very little effort.

Oh, yeah, and along the way, we'll be upgrading our HTML, CSS, and JavaScript skills. 🚀 We'll keep things as real as possible without getting too complex, of course. And, we'll be using tools 🧰 for code quality such as ESLint and Prettier. We'll also leverage some AI with GitHub CoPilot and/or Claude Sonnet. BTW, some of this text is being generated by AI 🤖❗ 🤓
